answer there - OUR DAILY DOUBLE! baowbaowbaowwwwww

Today's Daily Double is... A SNIPPET!!!

For quite a while I've been making aliases that I add to my `.zshrc` shell so that I can just navigate directly to repos from the root of my terminal without having to go through a series of directories and remember where shit is. So for example the Hub repo lives at `callum/telleytelley/multiplato/hub`, and to get there requires a lotta of cd-ing and generally is a pain in the ass. So I added an alias so that whenever I type and enter 'hub' in iterm2 at the root I directly navigate to the Hub. This was sorta nice so I started  adding similar aliases for other repos I was contributing to. Neat, but I found that the maintenance of continually having to update my `.zshrc` was a bit of a pain in the ass, especially if the projects and thus codebases I work in frequently changed. So I made a more reusable snippet that just takes whatever text you enter at the root of your repo in your terminal, and so long as a repo exists in one of the directories you configured to be included within that search, it will directly navigate to that repo. I've only had this going for a couple hours at this point and I feel sure that one day I'm gonna run into some sort of caveat where I have a repo with a name that is a reserved symbol or something of the sort- but until then, I'll enjoy a few saved keystrokes.

anyway

`vim ~/.zshrc` (or w/e you prefer if heathen) and add......

```
 create_repo_aliases() {
    local base_dir="$1"
    [[ -d "$base_dir" ]] || return
    for path in "$base_dir"/*; do
      [[ -d "$path" ]] || continue
      local name="${path##*/}"
      local sanitized="${name//[^[:alnum:]]/_}"
      sanitized="${sanitized:l}"
      sanitized="${sanitized//__/_}"
      sanitized="${sanitized##_}"
      sanitized="${sanitized%%_}"
      [[ -n "$sanitized" ]] || continue
      alias "$sanitized"="cd $(printf "%q" "$path")"
      if [[ "$name" =~ ^[[:alpha:]_][[:alnum:]_]*$ ]] && [[ "$name" != "$sanitized" ]];
  then
        alias "$name"="cd $(printf "%q" "$path")"
      fi
    done
  }

  create_repo_aliases "$HOME/bronson"
  create_repo_aliases "$HOME/tellytelly"
```

(add the directories you want to include via `create_repo_aliases` - for me, bronson is where personal projects live and tellytelly is where work projects live)

